# Mastermind

From Wikipedia: Mastermind or Master Mind is a code-breaking game for two players. The modern game with pegs was invented in 1970 by Mordecai Meirowitz, an Israeli postmaster and telecommunications expert.[1][2] It resembles an earlier pencil and paper game called Bulls and Cows that may date back a century or more.

# Red, Yellow, Orange, Green, Blue, Purple, White
# Scoring Black, White

Mastermind.  (Main.java class if using Repl.it but ok)
*Make a game class
**gives rules at beginning (could be a method call printRules() )
**Scanner class - input user prompts, etc
***would make calls to methods to guess position
***return for this? int[#cPcL][#cPwL]
**Instructions - capture instructions (for text file and UI)\
**?PvP = play1 choses secret code (swap places at keyboard)
***play2 - takes turn guessing
**?PvC	= play1 - computer randomizes colors and location of pins				
***play2 - takes turn guessing
		
*Make a board Class
**Pins - Encoding colors - do we use ints or chars?
**[R, G, Y, O]   [R, B, Y, G]  [2][1]
**[R, G, Y, O]   [R, O, Y, G]  [2][2]   
**int - translate btwn colors
**chars - individual letter

|  | PROS| CONS |
|Ints|-simple to code | -translate back and forth |
|   |		     |-might be confusing to player|
|chars| -less confusion for player | -a bit more code to learn |	 

*Arrays - 1-2D array for player guesses
	**1-1D array for the secret code
	
	
# Descrpition
In this project I coded the game mastermind. In this game the computer randomly generates a code that the player must guess. The player has ten turns to guess the secret code. After each guess the player will receive a score telling them if the had any black or white pins. A black pin means they have a guess that is the correct letter and in the correct position. A white pin means that they have guessed a correct letter but it is not in the correct position. 

# Process
I began my process by creating a double array list to form the board. This was relatively easy, however, I did run into a bit of a challenge when I had to make the code pop up on every other line. I then moved on to making the secret code randomly generated by the computer. This did not present much of a challenge for me and did not take me too long. The most difficult part of this project for me was when I had to code the part where the computer checks the users guess against the secret code. This took me a while as I had to run through many iterations of the code. It took me a while because when I attempted to add the function to end the game if the player wins, it continously messed up the print out of the board. Eventually I was able to figure it out with a more simple code.

# Log
Jan 24...
Today I worked on getting 4 randomly generated pins that the player has to guess.
It works most of the time but it sometimes gives me an out of bounds error and I dont really know why

Jan 26...
Today I finsished getting the randomly generated pins and began working on the aspect of putting the users guess into the board

Jan 28...
Today I was able to input a users guess into the board and began working on checking through that guess and comparing to the secret 

Feb 2...
Finsihed the check through and wrapped up the rest of my code.

